For assignment 2, the task is to compute the mean and variance for each word that appears in one or more paragraphs of the input document. Each line in the input file represents one paragraph.

Input file: dataSet2.txt
Output file content: Document count, mean, and variance for the words that appear in the document.
Output format: Text file with fields: word, \t, paragraph (document) count, mean, variance.
Required elements:

Name your class WordStatistics.
Implement a custom class that implements the Writable interface (name this class WordStatisticsWritable), and use this class for map output, and reducer input and output.
Implement and use a combiner.
Remove punctuation (commas, periods, double quotes, ....) and convert the text to lowercase. I suggest that you first run the WordCount program on dataSet2.txt to see what punctuation exists in the document. This document contains footnote citations like this:  "[174]".  Consider these as words.
Major Hints:

Declaration of the map class for WordStatistics should look like this:

... extends Mapper<LongWritable, Text, Text, WordStatisticsWritable>
Declaration of the reduce class for WordStatistics should look like this:

... extends Reducer<Text, WordStatisticsWritable, Text, WordStatisticsWritable>
Artifacts to submit:

Assignment2Build.tar - all files (Java, pom.xml) in the directory structure required by maven and buildable with your pom.xml file. ZIP is OK is you don't have tar.
Assignment2Code.zip - all files (Java) in a flat directory for easy inspection for grading
Assignment2Output.txt - output generated by your WordStatistics map-reduce program
Your Java code should include comments that describe your approach, so that it can be read and easily understood for grading.

Extra Credit (2 points):

In addition to computing statistics for the words in the input, also calculate the mean and variance for paragraph length. For the extra credit, use the following files as input:

dataSet2Xa.txt
dataSet2Xb.txt
To specify multiple input files, where you would list a single file as the input to a map-reduce job, give both filenames separated by a comma, like this:

s3://bucketName/data/dataSet2Xa.txt,s3://bucketName/data/dataSet2Xb.txt
To read multiple input files, you'll need to make this change in the main() method of WordStatistics (I suggest you use this in all future mapReduce programs):

FileInputFormat.addInputPaths(job, appArgs[0]);
Additional artifact to submit:

Assignment2XOutput.txt - output generated by your WordStatistics map-reduce program using extra credit input.   
